# Romance

I'd love to tell you to just avoid romance altogether in college, but in good conscience I just can't do that. There never is a good time in your life to have a failed romance, and often there isn't time for a *successful* romance.   But the simple fact of the matter is that humans, and especially twenty-somethings, are walking bags of hormones waiting to be unleashed. Once you get a puncture, that tire is blowing, and attempting to ignore if will just make your road that much rockier in the long run. 

I learned this the very hard way. In my first semester at Olin I fell for a particular colleague, we'll call him Jim, quite hard. In retrospect it should have been obvious that this was highly likely from the get-go given that the gender counts were perfectly balanced and all of us geeky young engineers were finding others who understood us, and that we could grant a lot of respect to, in very close confines. You could think of it much like a wartime situation, where we were all in the trenches doing our jobs and finding others doing them in often extremely admirable ways. 

For me, I had been extremely focused  on education prior to this point. The notion that a member of the opposite sex could affect my life in any appreciable way was alien to me. So when I started acting like an idiot with a crush for what was, basically, the first time, I was quite baffled by this development. And when my crush told me he wasn't interested I responded by saying that that was fine then, and honestly expected nothing more of it. 

Anyone with more romantic experience than a rock would probably realize that was a doomed expectation for the end of a first crush, when said crush is in close physical proximity on a regular basis.  So I acted erratically and mangled much of the emotional experience of my first year at college. 

The particular level of insanity of this situation was far from being caused only by a simple crush. There was a lot going on in my life, from ditching my family religion, ditching my parents, and simultaneously uncovering the hard fact that I was vastly underprepared for the academic rigor I was facing.  In addition, I was discovering popular music for the first time, and hadn't learned to regulate the emotional experiences much of pop can generate. 

I think my point still stands though. Romantic involvements can be wonderful, but they can also be terribly messy and hard. My best advice for anyone who hasn't had their first romantic experience yet is to do it before college, but if you can't, just try and be prepared for the fact that it might end up causing a lot more emotional turbulence than the flight attendant mentioned.  Give yourself the time and attention you need to work through your shit, then work to focus back on what direction you want to take your life in. 
